2 V. Okouma, D. Symmons, N. Hosseinpour -Zonoozi, D. Ilk, and T.A. Blasingame  SPE 162910 
 
Introduction 
 
The starting point for any discussion of decline curve analysis (DCA) for u nconventional reservoirs ( e.g., tight gas, shale gas, 
liquid-rich shales, and coalbed methane) must be an understanding that no simplified time -rate model can accurately capture 
all elements of the performance behavior.  In addition, no time -rate model can be expected to provide a completely unique 
forecast of future performance or prediction of EUR.  We must be both realistic and practical when attempting to characterize 
production performance from systems where the permeability is on the order of 10 -500 nd (or 10x10 -6 to 500x10-6 md) —  the 
reservoir flow system is complex (we are not actually certa in what is flowing from where) and although the induced ( i.e., 
created) hydraulic fracture system enables (and dominates) the production performance, we have only the most rudimentary 
understanding of the flow structure in the hydraulic (and natural) fract ure systems. 
 
It is essential that we establish these conditions as a starting point —  to not do so will inevitably lead the analyst to 
interpretations based on incorrect assumptions ( e.g., boundary-dominated flow) as well as significant bias ( e.g., the 
"expectation" that a particular regime has a given character, regardless of the flow conditions in the reservoir -well system 
such as large volumes of flowback water and backpressures being induced in the horizontal and vertical portions of the well).   
These issues are not insurmountable, we believe that reasonable production forecasts and predictions of EUR can be made, 
but not in isolation, not solely looking at the data and the selected time -rate model —  the analyst must consider the nature of 
the resource and the significant uncertainty in our ability to apply simple time -rate relations to a very complex reservoir 
system. 
 
As background, we need to look a t the historical development of time -rate relations, obviously focusing on modern 
developments, but also  the rationale for such developments.  In the studies provided by R ushing et al. [2007] and Lee  and 
Sidle [2010] these authors showed that the unconstrained use Arps' hyperbolic rate relation (particularly for cases where the  
b-values are greater than 1)  can and almost always does yield significant overestimates of reserves.  The b>1 point requires 
discussion and clarification — the possible flow regimes encountered at early times for a horizontal well wit h multiple 
hydraulic fracture stages (as many as 30 ) are summarized as:  
 
! Linear Flow: (1:2 slope) 
t
atq LF=)(  (very high conductivity vertical fractures ) 
! Bilinear Flow: (1:4 slope) 4)(
t
atq BLF=  (low/very low conductivity vertical fractures ) 
! Multi-Fracture Flow: (1:3 slope)  )( 3 t
atq MFF=  (observed occasionally in practice and from simulations  
with multiple sets of vertical and horizontal fractures) 
 
We note that all of these are "power law"  flow regimes, where rate is related to time raised to an exponent.  This is an 
important distinction (and perhaps even coincidence) as the Arps hyperbolic time -rate relation can be reduced to a power law 
form under certain circumstances.  This ability of the Arps hyperbolic time- rate relation to represent a power -law flow regime 
has led to this relation being used (often incorrectly) to analyze and extrapolate early -time production data.  Recalling the 
Arps hyperbolic time- rate relation, we have: [Arps (19 45), Johnson and Bollens (1927) ] 
 
bi
i
tbD
qtq /1)1(
)(
+
=   ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................ (1) 
 
By inspection, if we substitute:  
 
! b=2 into Eq. 1 (and assume that bDit >> 1); then we obtain the square -root time relation (linear flow) 
! b=4 into Eq. 1 (and assume that bDit >> 1); then we obtain the fourth -root time relation (bilinear flow) 
! b=3 into Eq. 1 (and assume that bDit >> 1); then we obtain the third- root time relation (multi-fracture flow) 
 
In simple terms, if these power -law flow regimes are represented by the Arps hype rbolic time-rate relation, then extrapolation 
of the Arps hyperbolic relation will almost always tend to significant overestimations of EUR and performance extrapola -
tions.  As the Arps hyperbolic relation does often represent the early -time flow behavior,  the industry has adopted a protocol 
to "constrain" the ultimate extrapolation by "splicing" a terminal exponential decline trend —  hence, the "modified hyper -
bolic" designation.  Again, we recognize that this is practice -based approach and we appreciate that the modified hyperbolic 
time-rate relation can be used effectively, we simply have concerns about bias and about the significant potential for over -
estimation using this approach.  
 
  