SPE 162910 Practical Considerations for Decline Curve Analys is in Unconventional Reservoirs  5 
 
Our general procedure for time-rate analysis is to simultaneously use  the diagnostic plots and calibrate the parameters of each 
model until an optimum (visual) match is achieved.  This procedure ensures consistency in the analysis and prevents the non -
uniqueness associated with simply matching a single variable (e.g., only matching the model with the production rate) .  We 
observe in industry the increasing  use of  regression as a primary tool for matching dat a —  we believe that sole use of 
regression (without any diagnostic guidance) for time-rate analysis will eventually result in non -uniqueness and any forecast/ 
results will be prone to errors.   We only suggest the use of regression as a final step to further refine model parameters once 
a diagnostic interpretation is complete and model parameters are calibrated using the diagnostic plots.  
 
As mentioned earlier, we utilize time-rate data from three different play s for our purposes.  We demonstrate the characteristic 
time-rate behavior associated with each play using multi -well cross-plots.  W e begin with Field A.  In Fig. 1 we present the 
time-rate behavior of six wells producing in Field A.  Shallower decline behavior and dominantly "power -law" type flow 
regimes ( e.g., 1/2 slope, 1/3 slope) are observed throughout production history.  When data are plotted on the log[q/Gp] 
versus log[t] plot (see Fig. 2), almost all wells exhibit almost identical behavior ( i.e., we observe an apparent linear trend on 
log-log scale). 
 
The log[D(t)] versus log[t] data are presented in Fig. 3  (left axis), and we observe  that certain (but not major) differences 
exist in the slope values of these wells  —  which could be related with production characteristics ( e.g., permeability, fracture 
half-length, etc.).  The log[b(t)] versus log[ t] data are presented in Fig. 3  (right a xis) and these data suggest that the 
hyperbolic relation could be applicable to model time-rate data as the b(t) trend exhibits a very gradual decrease with time 
and we could reasonably assume a constant b-value, in the 2 -3 range.  In Fig. 4 we present the  log[!(t)] versus log[ t] trend 
and we note a  stabilization of data with time , which suggests that "power -law" type flow regimes are being established.  In 
conclusion, we complete our diagnostic interpretation of time-rate behavior of wells in Field A with the remark that time -rate 
behavior is being dominated by "power -law" type flow regimes.  
 
Our next example presents six wells from Field B.  Contrary to Field A ; the time-rate data for the  wells in Field B exhibit 
steep decreases —  that is, the log[ q(t)] versus log[ t] trends (Fig. 5 ) are close to unit slope after 100 days, indicating "deple-
tion"-type behavior .  The log[ q/Gp] versus log[ t] trends are shown in Fig. 6; and it is not clear that a linear trend ever fully 
exists for these cases (as is required by the Duong method [Doung (2011)]).  This behavior is discussed  in more detail in the 
next section where the performance for  each well is analyzed using each of the time- rate models. 
 
Due to somewhat random oscillations in the rate data , the resolution of  the log[ D(t)] and log[ b(t)] versus log[ t] data trends 
(Fig. 7) yields only qualitative character  —  the data trends are quite erratic, but the D(t) trend does suggest linearity, hence 
the power-law exponential time- rate model may be the most appropriate model for these cases .  The b(t) data trends are more 
difficult to interpret ; but at least we do observe that on average, the b(t) trends are not as high as those observed in Field A —
we note that most of the b(t) trends are in vicinity of unity (or less).   In Fig. 8 we present the log[ !(t)] versus log[ t] trends, 
and although the trends shown on Fig. 7  were quite erratic, the trends in Fig. 8  appear well -behaved, and this observation 
suggests that transient "power-law" type flow regimes likely do not exist for the wells in Field B , except to note that most (or 
all) trends shown on Fig. 8 appear to be converging to unity at long times, which validates the "depletion" (i.e., unit slope) 
observation. 
 
Our last example includes 5 wells from Field C , and from the time-rate behavior shown in Fig. 9, we can consider Field C to 
be a possible analog of Field A  —  however; the time -rate trends for Field C do not achieve a "half -slope" character as 
expected for high con ductivity vertical fractures.  It is possible that the "power-law"-type flow regimes exist but are not 
dominant.  I n Fig 10 we present the log[ q/Gp] versus log[ t] data, and we observe almost identical character to Field A ( i.e., 
strongly linear trends) . 
 
As shown in Fig. 11  (left axi s), the log[ D(t)] versus log[ t] trends are strongly linear and quite consistent, verifying the 
likelihood of the viability of the power -law exponential time -rate model.  Also on Fig. 11 (right axis) we present the log[ b(t)] 
versus log[ t] data trends, and i n these cases we note consistently declining (apparently linear) trends of b(t) —  which also 
validates the power -law exponential concept.  On the other hand, we could suggest the possibility of using an average b-value 
if hyperbolic relation where to be forced on these data (it is improbable that a constant b -value would represent the observed 
behavior, but we are simply suggesting that this could be done given the uncertainty in some of the b (t) data).  In Fig. 12 we 
present the log[!(t)] versus log[ t] data —  and we observe generally increasing data trends , although there does appear to be 
convergence of several trends to !(t) = 0.5, suggesting at least some portion of the data are governed by linear flow.  It is also 
worth noting that one particular case  exhibits !(t) # 1, suggesting progression towards the "depletion" flow regime.  
 
It is vitally important that the analyst realize that the diagnostic analysis of production data is a necessary step .  Although 
some of our conclusions are qualitative, the diagnostic analysis of multiple data functions ensures a degree of impartiality in 
the data analysis, and helps us to at least qualify the uncertainty in the data, which will likely ensure that we is olate the 
relevant time- rate models and that we do not attempt analyses/interpretations which are not justified by the quality and/or 
nature of the given production data.  It is critical that data diagnostics always be performed as part of the data analysis.  
 
  