6 V. Okouma, D. Symmons, N. Hosseinpour -Zonoozi, D. Ilk, and T.A. Blasingame  SPE 162910 
 
Application of the Time-rate Models to Long Term Production Data  
 
We present a (relatively) long term production data example in order to investigate  the model behavior of the rate decline 
equations considered in this work.  As mentioned earlier, th is field example consists of a tight gas well from East Texas 
(permeability values  are estimated to be around 7.0 $D) and we have  more than 7 years of production.  For this case, w e 
demonstrate our diagnostic interpretation procedure for matching data and performing forecasts.  
 
In Figs. 13 -16 we present the matches of given production data with each of the time-rate models.  We note that all of the 
matches are performed simultaneously by calibrating model parameters as we are guided by the diagnostic plots.  As 
observed in Figs. 13 and 14, each of the models match es the data throughout entire production history .  In particular, when  
the log[q/Gp] versus log[ t] plot is used, we note that the models can approximate the data trend to a considerable extent  (as 
mentioned, this rendering tends to force the impression of a linear relationship, which may not be the case) .  Therefore, the 
differences in EUR will be dictated by the long term model behavior  —  and this is  where the differences between the time-
rate models begins to emerge. 
 
Duong's model is based on the linear behavior of q /Gp-t data trend (on a log-log scale); whereas the power-law exponential, 
the stretched exponential , and the logistic growth models exhibit non -linear behavior (although this is somewhat difficult to 
distinguish on Fig. 14 —  essentially one should note that the other models fall below the Duong model).   This difference in 
behavior dictates that the EUR estimate s from Duong's model should  (almost always)  be higher than  that for the other 
models.  On the other hand, when a terminal decline is imposed on the modified -hyperbolic relation, deviations from the 
linear trend are readily evident (as seen in  Fig. 14).  We  note that the modified -hyperbolic and power -law exponential have 
specific terms which limit the  over-estimation of EUR , the Duong model does not.  We would note as a suggestion that the 
Duong model could be similarly constrained by adding a terminal expon ential decline, but this is not the intent of the Duong 
model and we do not make a specific recommendation that this be done.  It is worth noting that for methods which utilize a 
terminal decline, the prescribed value of the terminal decline is generally a n arbitrary number and is often based on a 
company's policies and/or the analyst's experience.  
 
In Fig. 15  we present the log[D(t)] and log[ b(t)] versus log[ t] data trends  for this case .  Very strong linear behavior of the 
computed log[D(t)] versus log[ t] trend is observed —  confirming the applicability of the power -law exponential time -rate 
model.  It can be argued that the late st-time data are affected by the numerical differentiation algorithm and therefore can be 
considered as artifacts  (note the late -time behavior in the D(t) and b(t) functions).  Nevertheless, each of the  models matches 
the data trends  in their own fashions.   The b(t) trend does appears to be decreasing with time  (with the noted artifact near the 
endpoint); and an average b -value can be inferred from the data behavior.  Lastly, we review the log[!(t)] versus log[ t] data  
in Fig. 16  and we note that each of the models match es the !(t) data trends to some degree —  and we note that there are 
differences are observed at early and  late times.  In particular, the  late-time behavior of a given model  plays a dominant role 
in the prediction of EUR . 
 
In Table 1 we summarize the EUR values computed at 30 years as obtained from the models.   For this case, Duong's model 
yields the highest EUR and the logistic growth model yields the lowest EUR values.  We use five percent (5%) terminal 
decline value for the modified hyperbolic equation, we note that increasing this value will yield a decreas e in the predicted 
EUR. 
 
Table 1 —  Time-rate analyses results for the East TX gas well (long term production data) (All models)  
 
  
EURPLE 
 
EURSE 
 
EURDNG 
 
EURLGM 
 
EURMHYP 
Well Name 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
           East TX gas well 
 
2.93 
 
2.93 
 
3.17 
 
2.84 
 
3.14 
 
Time-Rate Analyses 
 
In this section we present the "Time-Rate" analyses for each well from a given shale play using each of the  models specified 
in this study.  Before starting, we believe it is worthwhile to note that each of the matches  produced in this study are based 
uniquely on our own interpretation  of the model behavior  —  and we realize that different matches with different EUR values 
can be obtained  with similar probability.  As we have mentioned many times earlier in this work, our matches are the direct 
result of a systematic interpretation proce ss which is focused primarily on the use of specialized  diagnostic plots.  We again 
note that we do not simply perform regression analysis, each analysis is based on diagnostic behavior coupled with an 
intrinsic understanding of each time -rate model and the diagnostic character of the given time -rate model. 
 
  