8 V. Okouma, D. Symmons, N. Hosseinpour -Zonoozi, D. Ilk, and T.A. Blasingame  SPE 162910 
 
Table 4 —  Time-rate analyses results for Field C (All models)  
 
Field C 
 
EURPLE 
 
EURSE 
 
EURDNG 
 
EURLGM 
 
EURMHYP 
Well Name 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
 
(BSCF) 
           Well C.1 
 
5.32 
 
5.64 
 
7.34 
 
5.05 
 
5.81 
Well C.2 
 
9.23 
 
9.48 
 
11.34 
 
8.01 
 
10.20 
Well C.3 
 
2.81 
 
2.96 
 
3.47 
 
2.46 
 
3.44 
Well C.4 
 
3.66 
 
3.76 
 
4.94 
 
3.47 
 
3.95 
Well C.5 
 
4.11 
 
4.08 
 
4.92 
 
3.86 
 
4.89 
 
In this particular case, the  logistic growth model appears to provide the most conservative EUR values  (quite comparable to 
both the power-law exponential and stretched -exponential time-rate models). 
 
Interpretation of Results  
 
We provide our interpretation of results by presenting comparison plots of the EUR values predicted by each model.  For our 
purposes, we choose the power -law exponential model results as the reference results and we compare EUR values from 
different models with respect to the power -law exponential model.  This approach should identify  any correlations a nd/or 
inconsistencies that might exist between models.  
 
For Field A, comparison plots are presented through Figs. 85 -88.  Fig. 85  presents the comparison between the power-law 
exponential model and the Duong model —  and we observe from th is plot that the E UR values from the Duong model are 
consistently higher than the results for the power-law exponential model .  In Fig. 86  we present a comparison between the 
power-law exponential model and the logistic growth model, and with the exception of a single case (Well A.5), the EUR 
predictions are very  similar.  Our next comparison considers the power-law exponential model and the modified hyperbolic 
model and is presented in Fig. 87 —  we note some consistency in  predicted EUR values, but we also note a couple of outliers 
that would suggest that the modified hyperbolic relation will always predict higher EUR values compared to the power -law 
exponential model —  where we also note that the terminal decline (for the modified hyperbolic model) is probably the 
controlling variable in this case.  Lastly , in Fig. 88  we present a comparison of the  power-law exponential model and the 
stretched exponential model —  and essentially identical results are obtained, somewhat as expected as these relations have 
essentially the same  mathematical formulation (the power -law exponential does have a constraint parameter ( i.e., the D!-
term).  Almost identical results are seen, due to the fact that these two equations are essentially the same relations , and wells 
in Field A are not (yet) in boundary- dominated flow regime after a few years of production (2 -4 years). 
 
We perform the same exercise s for Field B (see Figs. 89-92) and for Field C (see Figs. 93-96) and observe similar trends as 
we observe in the case of Field A  —  the results for the power -law exponential and stretched exponential models are almost 
always the same.  The results for the power-law exponential and the logistic growth model s are also very similar, except for a 
few cases.  In general, the Duong  model always predicts the highest  EUR values.  The degree of discrepancy in  the results 
obtained using the Duong  model is higher in the case of Field B and Field C than Field A.  This is most likely due to the flow 
regimes exhibited by the production data in Fie ld A where "power -law" flow regimes (linear/bi -linear flow, etc.) appear to 
dominate the time-rate performance.  Based on these results, we can conclude that the Duong model could be more applicable 
to plays such as Field A where long term power -law flow regimes exist —  however, additional constraints might be required 
to prevent over-estimation of EUR values  when the Duong model is being applied. 
 
Summary and Conclusions 
 
Summary: This work presents a workflow that can be used to analyze and forecast time-rate data of wells in low /ultra-low 
permeability reservoirs.  The key component of the workflow is the application of the "Db," " !-derivative," and " q/Gp" 
diagnostic plots to guide the analysis and obtain model parameters for a given time-rate relation.  Once model parameters are 
obtained, the production profile is extrapolated to yield the " estimated ultimate recovery " (EUR) at a specified time limit or 
abandonment rate. 
 
In this work we have  presented diagnostic and time -rate model -based analyses of long -term production data from 17 wells 
taken from three different shale plays.  We have also provided a tight -gas example which has a somewhat long duration and 
high-quality production histor y to further demonstrate the methodology.  Our overall asse ssment, based on the wells used in 
this study , is that production data (i.e., time-rate data)  of reasonable quality can effectively drive the proposed diagnostic-
based analysis.  We are confident that a practicing reservoir engineer can effectively and eff iciently utilize the diagnostic 
workflow process to ensure the most comprehensive and representative analyses of a given set  of production data.  We also 
provide the usual caveat that there must be sufficient production history available to perform a compe tent analysis ; analysis 
of short -time data (no matter how pristine the quality of the data) will lead to overly optimistic estimates of reserves and 
predictions of future performance.  
  